---
title: "Collision Risk Assessment Service for Connected Vehicles: Leveraging Vehicular State and Motion Uncertainties"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-07-25-paper5
date: 2021-07-15
venue: 'IEEE Internet of Things Journal'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9353721'
citation: 'Tao Lu, Yousuke Watanabe, Yixiao Li, Shunya Yamada, and Hiroaki Takada. "Collision risk assessment service for connected vehicles: Leveraging vehicular state and motion uncertainties." IEEE Internet of Things Journal 8, no. 14 (2021): 11548-11560.'
---

**Abstract**: The Internet of Things plays an indispensable role in the development of connected vehicles, which will pave the way for road safety applications. In recent years, the concept of a cooperative collision warning system (CCWS) has been introduced and developed to enhance road safety, and it has been seen as a typical Internet-of-Vehicles application. In most CCWSs, it is vital to have a detection mechanism based on trajectory predictions where the uncertainties associated with vehicular state and motion are complex. However, most available approaches in this regard did not consider these uncertainties. Hence, this article proposes a new collision risk assessment (CRA) method where sigma trajectories that include multiple possible trajectories considering multiple aspects of vehicular motion are designed to cope with vehicular uncertainties. Our method is implemented in a novel server-based architecture, which is different from the commonly used vehicle-based controlled CCWSs. The CRA is provided as a service by a cloud server. The proposed method and architecture are validated and evaluated through extensive real-world experiments. Experimental results show that our method outperforms a referenced method in terms of CRA and achieves better robustness in tolerating communication delays and dropouts. Latencies in CRA service were analyzed, and it was found that powerful computing resources provided by cloud servers can significantly decrease computational cost, which will indirectly compensate for communication costs in the future. Based on our high-performance CRA method, the proposed architecture can be regarded as a novel option for CCWS design.

A demo of this system can be viewed at [here.](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1jB4y1D7QC/?share_source=copy_web&vd_source=5bdac0c7b62f4b18a36429610e8c9197) 
