---
title: "A Lightweight Long-Term Vehicular Motion Prediction Method Leveraging Spatial Database and Kinematic Trajectory Data"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-08-29-paper4
date: 2022-08-29
venue: 'ISPRS International Journal of Geo-Information'
paperurl: 'http://lutaonuwhu.github.io/files/paper4.pdf'
citation: 'Tao Lu, Yousuke Watanabe, and Hiroaki Takada. "A Lightweight Long-Term Vehicular Motion Prediction Method Leveraging Spatial Database and Kinematic Trajectory Data." ISPRS International Journal of Geo-Information 11, no. 9 (2022): 463.'
---

**Abstract**: Long-term vehicular motion prediction is a crucial function for both autonomous driving and advanced driver-assistant systems. However, due to the uncertainties of vehicle dynamics and complexities of surroundings, long-term motion prediction is never trivial work. As they combine effects of humans, vehicles and environments, kinematic trajectory data reflect several aspects of vehicles’ spatial behaviors. In this paper, we propose a novel method that leverages spatial database and kinematic trajectory data to achieve long-term vehicular motion prediction in a lightweight way. In our system, a spatial database system is initially embedded in an extended Kalman filter (EKF) framework. The spatial kinematic trajectory data are managed through the database and directly used in motion prediction; namely, weighted means are derived from the spatially retrieved kinematic data and used to update EKF predictions. The proposed method is validated in the real world. The experiments indicate that different weighting methods make a slight accuracy difference. Our method is not data-and-computation-consumed; its performance is acceptable in the limited data conditions and its prediction accuracy is improved as the size of used data sets increases; our method can predict in real time. The efficiency of an unscented Kalman filter (UKF) is compared with that of the EKF. The results show that the UKF can hardly meet real-time requirements.
